 2023 Feb 1;192(2):305-322. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac175.

Wastewater Surveillance for Infectious Disease: A Systematic Review.

Kilaru P, Hill D, Anderson K, Collins MB, Green H, Kmush BL, Larsen DA.

Wastewater surveillance for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2) has been shown to be a valuable source of information regarding 
SARS-CoV-2 transmission and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases. Although 
the method has been used for several decades to track other infectious diseases, 
there has not been a comprehensive review outlining all of the pathogens that 
have been surveilled through wastewater. Herein we identify the infectious 
diseases that have been previously studied via wastewater surveillance prior to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Infectious diseases and pathogens were identified in 100 
studies of wastewater surveillance across 38 countries, as were themes of how 
wastewater surveillance and other measures of disease transmission were linked. 
Twenty-five separate pathogen families were identified in the included studies, 
with the majority of studies examining pathogens from the family Picornaviridae, 
including polio and nonpolio enteroviruses. Most studies of wastewater 
surveillance did not link what was found in the wastewater to other measures of 
disease transmission. Among those studies that did, the value reported varied by 
study. Wastewater surveillance should be considered as a potential public health 
tool for many infectious diseases. Wastewater surveillance studies can be 
improved by incorporating other measures of disease transmission at the 
population-level including disease incidence and hospitalizations.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac175
PMCID: PMC9620728
PMID: 36227259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4