 2022 Sep 28;191(10):1776-1780. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac099.

Invited Commentary: Mechanistic and Biologically Based Models in Epidemiology-A 
Powerful Underutilized Tool.

Meza R, Jeon J.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Sep 28;191(10):1781-1782.

Comment on
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Sep 28;191(10):1766-1775.

Mechanistic and biologically based mathematical models of chronic and behavioral 
disease processes aim to capture the main mechanistic or biological features of 
the disease development and to connect these with epidemiologic outcomes. These 
approaches have a long history in epidemiologic research and are complementary 
to traditional epidemiologic or statistical approaches to investigate the role 
of risk factor exposures on disease risk. Simonetto et al. (Am J Epidemiol. 
2022;191(10):1766-1775) present a mechanistic, process-oriented model to 
investigate the role of smoking, hypertension, and dyslipidemia in the 
development of atherosclerotic lesions and their progression to myocardial 
infarction. Their approach builds on and brings to cardiovascular disease the 
ideas and perspectives of earlier mechanistic and biologically based models for 
the epidemiology of cancer and other chronic diseases, providing important 
insights into the mechanisms and epidemiology of smoking related myocardial 
infarction. We argue that although mechanistic modeling approaches have 
demonstrated their value and place in epidemiology, they are highly 
underutilized. We call for efforts to grow mechanistic and biologically based 
modeling research, expertise, and awareness in epidemiology, including the 
development of training and collaboration opportunities to attract more students 
and researchers from science, technology, engineering, and medical field into 
the epidemiology field.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac099
PMID: 35650016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38