 2023 Jan 6;192(1):11-24. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac169.

The Impact of COVID-19 on the All of Us Research Program.

Hedden SL, McClain J, Mandich A, Baskir R, Caulder MS, Denny JC, Hamlet MRJ, 
Prabhu Das I, McNeil Ford N, Lopez-Class M, Elmi A, Wallace R, Linkie A, 
Garriock HA.

The All of Us Research Program, a health and genetics epidemiologic data 
collection program, has been substantially affected by the coronavirus disease 
2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Although the program is highly digital in nature, 
certain aspects of the data collection require in-person interaction between 
staff and participants. Before the pandemic, the program was enrolling 
approximately 12,500 participants per month at more than 400 clinical sites. In 
March 2020, because of the pandemic, all in-person activity at program sites and 
by engagement partners was paused to develop processes and procedures for 
in-person activities that incorporated strict safety protocols. In addition, the 
program adopted new data collection methodologies to reduce the need for 
in-person activities. Through February 2022, a total of 224 clinical sites had 
reactivated in-person activity, and all enrollment and engagement partners have 
adopted new data collection methods that can be used remotely. As the COVID-19 
pandemic persists, the program continues to require safety procedures for 
in-person activity and continues to generate and pilot methodologies that reduce 
risk and make it easier for participants to provide information.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health 2022. This work is written by (a) US Government 
employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac169
PMCID: PMC10144611
PMID: 36205043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34