 2022 Jul 23;191(8):1429-1443. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac075.

Relationship Between Level of American Football Playing and Diagnosis of Chronic 
Traumatic Encephalopathy in a Selection Bias Analysis.

LeClair J, Weuve J, Fox MP, Mez J, Alosco ML, Nowinski C, McKee A, Tripodis Y.

Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative disease associated 
with exposure to repetitive head impacts such as those from American football. 
Our understanding of this association is based on research in autopsied brains, 
since CTE can only be diagnosed postmortem. Such studies are susceptible to 
selection bias, which needs to be accounted for to ensure a generalizable 
estimate of the association between repetitive head impacts and CTE. We 
evaluated the relationship between level of American football playing and CTE 
diagnosis after adjusting for selection bias. The sample included 290 deceased 
male former American football players who donated their brains to the Veterans 
Affairs-Boston University-Concussion Legacy Foundation (VA-BU-CLF) Brain Bank 
between 2008 and 2019. After adjustment for selection bias, college-level and 
professional football players had 2.38 (95% simulation interval (SI): 1.16, 
5.94) and 2.47 (95% SI: 1.46, 4.79) times the risk of being diagnosed with CTE 
as high-school-level players, respectively; these estimates are larger than 
estimates with no selection bias adjustment. Since CTE is currently diagnosed 
only postmortem, we additionally provide plausible scenarios for CTE risk ratios 
for each level of play during the former players' lifetime. This study provides 
further evidence to support a dose-response relationship between American 
football playing and CTE.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac075
PMCID: PMC9989358
PMID: 35434739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31