 2023 May 5;192(5):800-811. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad025.

Use of Correct and Incorrect Methods of Accounting for Age in Studies of 
Epigenetic Accelerated Aging: Implications and Recommendations for Best 
Practices.

Krieger N, Chen JT, Testa C, Diez Roux A, Tilling K, Watkins S, Simpkin AJ, 
Suderman M, Davey Smith G, De Vivo I, Waterman PD, Relton C.

Motivated by our conduct of a literature review on social exposures and 
accelerated aging as measured by a growing number of epigenetic "clocks" (which 
estimate age via DNA methylation (DNAm) patterns), we report on 3 different 
approaches in the epidemiologic literature-1 incorrect and 2 correct-on the 
treatment of age in these and other studies using other common exposures (i.e., 
body mass index and alcohol consumption). Among the 50 empirical articles 
reviewed, the majority (n = 29; 58%) used the incorrect method of analyzing 
accelerated aging detrended for age as the outcome and did not control for age 
as a covariate. By contrast, only 42% used correct methods, which are either to 
analyze accelerated aging detrended for age as the outcome and control for age 
as a covariate (n = 16; 32%) or to analyze raw DNAm age as the outcome and 
control for age as a covariate (n = 5; 10%). In accord with prior demonstrations 
of bias introduced by use of the incorrect approach, we provide simulation 
analyses and additional empirical analyses to illustrate how the incorrect 
method can lead to bias towards the null, and we discuss implications for extant 
research and recommendations for best practices.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. This is an Open Access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 
License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0), which permits 
non-commercial re-use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original work is properly cited. For commercial re-use, please contact 
journalpermissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad025
PMCID: PMC10160768
PMID: 36721372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26