 2022 Oct 20;191(11):1847-1855. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac114.

Violence in the Great Recession.

Santaularia NJ, Osypuk TL, Ramirez MR, Mason SM.

Substantial evidence suggests that economic hardship causes violence. However, a 
large majority of this research relies on observational studies that use 
traditional violence surveillance systems that suffer from selection bias and 
over-represent vulnerable populations, such as people of color. To overcome 
limitations of prior work, we employed a quasi-experimental design to assess the 
impact of the Great Recession on explicit violence diagnoses (injuries 
identified to be caused by a violent event) and proxy violence diagnoses 
(injuries highly correlated with violence) for child maltreatment, intimate 
partner violence, elder abuse, and their combination. We used Minnesota hospital 
data (2004-2014), conducting a difference-in-differences analysis at the county 
level (n = 86) using linear regression to compare changes in violence rates from 
before the recession (2004-2007) to after the recession (2008-2014) in counties 
most affected by the recession, versus changes over the same time period in 
counties less affected by the recession. The findings suggested that the Great 
Recession had little or no impact on explicitly identified violence; however, it 
affected proxy-identified violence. Counties that were more highly affected by 
the Great Recession saw a greater increase in the average rate of 
proxy-identified child abuse, elder abuse, intimate partner violence, and 
combined violence when compared with less-affected counties.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac114
PMCID: PMC10144667
PMID: 35767881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37