 2023 Nov 3;192(11):1827-1834. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac069.

Racial and Ethnic Inequities in Health: Examining the Contributions of the 
American Journal of Epidemiology to Advancing the Science.

Borrell LN, Crawford ND.

The perverseness of racial and ethnic inequities in the United States continues 
to implore the investigation of their causes. While there have been improvements 
in the health of the US population, these improvements have not been equally 
distributed. To commemorate the 100th anniversary of the American Journal of 
Epidemiology, in this commentary, we aim to highlight the Journal's 
contributions to: 1) the definition and use of race and ethnicity in research, 
and 2) understanding racial and ethnic inequities, both empirically and 
methodologically, over the past decade. We commend the Journal for its 
contributions and for spearheading many of the challenges related to measuring 
and interpreting racial and ethnic data for the past 20 years. We identify 3 
additional areas in which the Journal could make further impact to address 
racial and ethnic inequities: 1) devote a section in every issue of the Journal 
to scientific papers that make substantive epidemiologic or methodological 
contributions to racial and ethnic inequities in health; 2) update the Journal's 
guidelines for authors to include justifying the use of race and ethnicity; and 
3) diversify the field of epidemiology by bringing a new cadre of scholars from 
minoritized racial and ethnic groups who represent the most affected communities 
into the research process.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac069
PMID: 35380604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20