 2022 Mar 24;191(4):557-560. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwab277.

Advancing the Social Epidemiology Mission of the American Journal of 
Epidemiology.

Gilman SE, Aiello A, Galea S, Howe CJ, Kawachi I, Lovasi GS, Dean LT, Oakes JM, 
Siddiqi A, Glymour MM.

Social epidemiology is concerned with how social forces influence population 
health. Rather than focusing on a single disease (as in cancer or cardiovascular 
epidemiology) or a single type of exposure (e.g., nutritional epidemiology), 
social epidemiology encompasses all the social and economic determinants of 
health, both historical and contemporary. These include features of social and 
physical environments, the network of relationships in a society, and the 
institutions, politics, policies, norms and cultures that shape all of these 
forces. This commentary presents the perspective of several editors at the 
Journal with expertise in social epidemiology. We articulate our thinking to 
encourage submissions to the Journal that: 1) expand knowledge of emerging and 
underresearched social determinants of population health; 2) advance new 
empirical evidence on the determinants of health inequities and solutions to 
advance health equity; 3) generate evidence to inform the translation of 
research on social determinants of health into public health impact; 4) 
contribute to innovation in methods to improve the rigor and relevance of social 
epidemiology; and 5) encourage critical self-reflection on the direction, 
challenges, successes, and failures of the field.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health 2021. This work is written by (a) US Government 
employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwab277
PMID: 34791025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9