 2023 Sep 1;192(9):1432-1448. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad094.

Interactions of Nonsteroidal Antiinflammatory Drugs and Aspirin and Risk of 
Cardiovascular Disease in Patients With Osteoarthritis.

Wei J, Zeng C, Lane NE, Li X, Lei G, Zhang Y.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2023 Sep 1;192(9):1449-1451.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2023 Sep 1;192(9):1452.

Nonsteroidal antiinf lammatory drugs (NSAIDs) remain the mainstay of the 
pharmacologic management for relieving osteoarthritis pain, and low-dose aspirin 
is often prescribed to osteoarthritis patients who are at high risk of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD). We conducted cohort studies using data from The 
Health Improvement Network (THIN) database (2000-2019) to assess whether the 
relationship of initiation of naproxen or ibuprofen vs. initiation of other 
NSAIDs (excluding both naproxen and ibuprofen), respectively, to the risk of CVD 
was modified by coprescription of low-dose aspirin among the participants with 
osteoarthritis. Among participants without coprescription of aspirin, the risk 
of CVD was lower in naproxen initiators (10.3/1000 person-years) than in other 
NSAIDs initiators (13.2/1000 person-years; hazard ratio = 0.71, 95% confidence 
interval: 0.60, 0.85). Among participants with coprescription of aspirin, 
however, the risk of CVD was higher among naproxen initiators (36.9/1000 
person-years) than that among other NSAIDs initiators (34.8/1000 person-years; 
hazard ratio = 1.48, 95% confidence interval: 1.12, 1.84). The association was 
significantly modified by coprescription of aspirin (P < 0.001). Similar 
findings were observed in the association of initiation of ibuprofen vs. other 
NSAIDs with the risk of CVD, which was significantly modified by coprescription 
of aspirin (P < 0.001). These findings suggest that osteoarthritis patients and 
clinicians should be aware of the potential CVD risk of concurrently taking 
naproxen or ibuprofen and low-dose aspirin.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad094
PMID: 37073405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24