 2023 Jul 7;192(7):1043-1046. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad052.

Counterpoint: Preprints and the Future of Scientific Publishing-In Favor of 
Relevance.

Glymour MM, Charpignon ML, Chen YH, Kiang MV.

Peer-reviewed journals provide an invaluable but inadequate vehicle for 
scientific communication. Preprints are now an essential complement to 
peer-reviewed publications. Eschewing preprints will slow scientific progress 
and reduce the public health impact of epidemiologic research. The coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic highlighted long-standing limitations of the 
peer-review process. Preprint servers, such as bioRxiv and medRxiv, served as 
crucial venues to rapidly disseminate research and provide detailed backup to 
sound-bite science that is often communicated through the popular press or 
social media. The major criticisms of preprints arise from an unjustified 
optimism about peer review. Peer review provides highly imperfect sorting and 
curation of research and only modest improvements in research conduct or 
presentation for most individual papers. The advantages of peer review come at 
the expense of months to years of delay in sharing research methods or results. 
For time-sensitive evidence, these delays can lead to important missteps and 
ill-advised policies. Even with research that is not intrinsically urgent, 
preprints expedite debate, expand engagement, and accelerate progress. The risk 
that poor-quality papers will have undue influence because they are posted on a 
preprint server is low. If epidemiology aims to deliver evidence relevant for 
public health, we need to embrace strategic uses of preprint servers.

Â© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad052
PMID: 36958814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29