 2023 Jul 7;192(7):1207-1223. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad082.

Metal Exposure and Risk of Parkinson Disease: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis.

Zhao Y, Ray A, Portengen L, Vermeulen R, Peters S.

Metal exposure has been suggested as a possible environmental risk factor for 
Parkinson disease (PD). We searched the PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases 
to systematically review the literature on the relationship between metal 
exposure and PD risk and to examine the overall quality of each study and the 
exposure assessment method. A total of 83 case-control studies and 5 cohort 
studies published during the period 1963-July 2021 were included, of which 73 
were graded as being of low or moderate overall quality. Investigators in 69 
studies adopted self-reported exposure and biomonitoring after disease diagnosis 
for exposure assessment approaches. The meta-analyses showed that concentrations 
of copper and iron in serum and concentrations of zinc in either serum or plasma 
were lower, while concentrations of magnesium in CSF and zinc in hair were 
higher, among PD cases as compared with controls. Cumulative lead levels in bone 
were found to be associated with increased risk of PD. We did not find 
associations between other metals and PD. The current level of evidence for 
associations between metals and PD risk is limited, as biases from 
methodological limitations cannot be ruled out. High-quality studies assessing 
metal levels before disease onset are needed to improve our understanding of the 
role of metals in the etiology of PD.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad082
PMCID: PMC10326611
PMID: 37022311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13