 2024 Feb 5;193(3):426-453. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad201.

The State of Use and Utility of Negative Controls in Pharmacoepidemiologic 
Studies.

Zafari Z, Park JE, Shah CH, dosReis S, Gorman EF, Hua W, Ma Y, Tian F.

Uses of real-world data in drug safety and effectiveness studies are often 
challenged by various sources of bias. We undertook a systematic search of the 
published literature through September 2020 to evaluate the state of use and 
utility of negative controls to address bias in pharmacoepidemiologic studies. 
Two reviewers independently evaluated study eligibility and abstracted data. Our 
search identified 184 eligible studies for inclusion. Cohort studies (115, 63%) 
and administrative data (114, 62%) were, respectively, the most common study 
design and data type used. Most studies used negative control outcomes (91, 
50%), and for most studies the target source of bias was unmeasured confounding 
(93, 51%). We identified 4 utility domains of negative controls: 1) bias 
detection (149, 81%), 2) bias correction (16, 9%), 3) P-value calibration (8, 
4%), and 4) performance assessment of different methods used in drug safety 
studies (31, 17%). The most popular methodologies used were the 95% confidence 
interval and P-value calibration. In addition, we identified 2 reference sets 
with structured steps to check the causality assumption of the negative control. 
While negative controls are powerful tools in bias detection, we found many 
studies lacked checking the underlying assumptions. This article is part of a 
Special Collection on Pharmacoepidemiology.

Â© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad201
PMID: 37851862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23