 2023 Nov 10;192(12):2033-2049. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad153.

Large-Scale Data Harmonization Across Prospective Studies.

Pan K, Bazzano LA, Betha K, Charlton BM, Chavarro JE, Cordero C, Gunderson EP, 
Haggerty CL, Hart JE, Jukic AM, Ley SH, Mishra GD, Mumford SL, Schisterman EF, 
Schliep K, Shaffer JG, Sotres-Alvarez D, Stanford JB, Wilcox AJ, Wise LA, Yeung 
E, Harville EW.

The Preconception Period Analysis of Risks and Exposures Influencing Health and 
Development (PrePARED) Consortium creates a novel resource for addressing 
preconception health by merging data from numerous cohort studies. In this 
paper, we describe our data harmonization methods and results. Individual-level 
data from 12 prospective studies were pooled. The 
crosswalk-cataloging-harmonization procedure was used. The index pregnancy was 
defined as the first postbaseline pregnancy lasting more than 20 weeks. We 
assessed heterogeneity across studies by comparing preconception characteristics 
in different types of studies. The pooled data set included 114,762 women, and 
25,531 (22%) reported at least 1 pregnancy of more than 20 weeks' gestation 
during the study period. Babies from the index pregnancies were delivered 
between 1976 and 2021 (median, 2008), at a mean maternal age of 29.7 (standard 
deviation, 4.6) years. Before the index pregnancy, 60% of women were 
nulligravid, 58% had a college degree or more, and 37% were overweight or obese. 
Other harmonized variables included race/ethnicity, household income, substance 
use, chronic conditions, and perinatal outcomes. Participants from 
pregnancy-planning studies had more education and were healthier. The prevalence 
of preexisting medical conditions did not vary substantially based on whether 
studies relied on self-reported data. Use of harmonized data presents 
opportunities to study uncommon preconception risk factors and pregnancy-related 
events. This harmonization effort laid the groundwork for future analyses and 
additional data harmonization.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health 2023.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad153
PMID: 37403415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39