 2022 Nov 19;191(12):2063-2070. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac115.

A Framework for Descriptive Epidemiology.

Lesko CR, Fox MP, Edwards JK.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Nov 19;191(12):2071-2072.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2023 Apr 6;192(4):681-682.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2023 Apr 6;192(4):680.

In this paper, we propose a framework for thinking through the design and 
conduct of descriptive epidemiologic studies. A well-defined descriptive 
question aims to quantify and characterize some feature of the health of a 
population and must clearly state: 1) the target population, characterized by 
person and place, and anchored in time; 2) the outcome, event, or health state 
or characteristic; and 3) the measure of occurrence that will be used to 
summarize the outcome (e.g., incidence, prevalence, average time to event, 
etc.). Additionally, 4) any auxiliary variables will be prespecified and their 
roles as stratification factors (to characterize the outcome distribution) or 
nuisance variables (to be standardized over) will be stated. We illustrate 
application of this framework to describe the prevalence of viral suppression on 
December 31, 2019, among people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
who had been linked to HIV care in the United States. Application of this 
framework highlights biases that may arise from missing data, especially 1) 
differences between the target population and the analytical sample; 2) 
measurement error; 3) competing events, late entries, loss to follow-up, and 
inappropriate interpretation of the chosen measure of outcome occurrence; and 4) 
inappropriate adjustment.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac115
PMCID: PMC10144679
PMID: 35774001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2