 2022 Jun 27;191(7):1174-1179. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac056.

On the Need to Revitalize Descriptive Epidemiology.

Fox MP, Murray EJ, Lesko CR, Sealy-Jefferson S.

Nearly every introductory epidemiology course begins with a focus on person, 
place, and time, the key components of descriptive epidemiology. And yet in our 
experience, introductory epidemiology courses were the last time we spent any 
significant amount of training time focused on descriptive epidemiology. This 
gave us the impression that descriptive epidemiology does not suffer from bias 
and is less impactful than causal epidemiology. Descriptive epidemiology may 
also suffer from a lack of prestige in academia and may be more difficult to 
fund. We believe this does a disservice to the field and slows progress towards 
goals of improving population health and ensuring equity in health. The severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) outbreak and subsequent 
coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic have highlighted the importance of descriptive 
epidemiology in responding to serious public health crises. In this commentary, 
we make the case for renewed focus on the importance of descriptive epidemiology 
in the epidemiology curriculum using SARS-CoV-2 as a motivating example. The 
framework for error we use in etiological research can be applied in descriptive 
research to focus on both systematic and random error. We use the current 
pandemic to illustrate differences between causal and descriptive epidemiology 
and areas where descriptive epidemiology can have an important impact.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac056
PMCID: PMC9383568
PMID: 35325036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3