 2023 Feb 24;192(3):483-496. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac146.

Conceptualization, Operationalization, and Utilization of Race and Ethnicity in 
Major Epidemiology Journals, 1995-2018: A Systematic Review.

Martinez RAM, Andrabi N, Goodwin AN, Wilbur RE, Smith NR, Zivich PN.

Despite repeated calls by scholars to critically engage with the concepts of 
race and ethnicity in US epidemiologic research, the incorporation of these 
social constructs in scholarship may be suboptimal. This study characterizes the 
conceptualization, operationalization, and utilization of race and ethnicity in 
US research published in leading journals whose publications shape discourse and 
norms around race, ethnicity, and health within the field of epidemiology. We 
systematically reviewed randomly selected articles from prominent epidemiology 
journals across 5 periods: 1995-1999, 2000-2004, 2005-2009, 2010-2014, and 
2015-2018. All original human-subjects research conducted in the United States 
was eligible for review. Information on definitions, measurement, coding, and 
use in analysis was extracted. We reviewed 1,050 articles, including 414 (39%) 
in our analyses. Four studies explicitly defined race and/or ethnicity. Authors 
rarely made clear delineations between race and ethnicity, often adopting an 
ethnoracial construct. In the majority of studies across time periods, authors 
did not state how race and/or ethnicity was measured. Top coding schemes 
included "Black, White" (race), "Hispanic, non-Hispanic" (ethnicity), and 
"Black, White, Hispanic" (ethnoracial). Most often, race and ethnicity were 
deemed "not of interest" in analyses (e.g., control variables). Broadly, 
disciplinary practices have remained largely the same between 1995 and 2018 and 
are in need of improvement.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac146
PMCID: PMC9985111
PMID: 35938872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33