 2022 Mar 24;191(5):825-833. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac007.

Pesticide Residue Intake From Fruit and Vegetable Consumption and Risk of 
Glioma.

Cote DJ, Bever AM, Chiu YH, Sandoval-Insausti H, Smith-Warner SA, Chavarro JE, 
Stampfer MJ.

We aimed to determine whether intake of pesticide residues from fruits and 
vegetables was associated with glioma. Within 3 prospective cohorts from 
1998-2016-the Nurses' Health Study (NHS), Nurses' Health Study II (NHSII), and 
Health Professionals Follow-up Study-we computed multivariable-adjusted hazard 
ratios (MVHRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for glioma by quintiles of 
intake of low- and high-pesticide-residue fruits and vegetables using Cox 
proportional hazards regression. Fruits and vegetables were categorized as high 
or low residue using a validated method based on pesticide surveillance data. We 
confirmed 275 glioma cases across 2,745,862 person-years. A significant 
association was observed between intake of high-residue fruits and vegetables 
and glioma in NHS (MVHR = 2.99, 95% CI: 1.38, 6.44 comparing highest with lowest 
quintile, P for trend = 0.02). This was not identified in NHSII (MVHR = 0.52, 
95% CI: 0.19, 1.45, P for trend = 0.20) or Health Professionals Follow-up Study 
(MVHR = 1.01, 95% CI: 0.42, 2.45, P for trend = 0.39). No significant 
associations were observed by intake of low-residue fruits and vegetables; 
overall intake was not significantly associated with glioma in any cohort. We 
found no evidence for an inverse relationship of fruit and vegetable intake with 
glioma. Although limited in power, this study suggests a possible association 
between fruit-and-vegetable pesticide residue intake and risk of glioma that 
merits further study.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac007
PMCID: PMC9430420
PMID: 35029641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22