 2023 Jun 2;192(6):972-986. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad035.

Design and Implementation of the All of Us Research Program COVID-19 Participant 
Experience (COPE) Survey.

Schulkey CE, Litwin TR, Ellsworth G, Sansbury H, Ahmedani BK, Choi KW, Cronin 
RM, Kloth Y, Ashbeck AW, Sutherland S, Mapes BM, Begale M, Bhat G, King P, 
Marginean K, Wolfe KA, Kouame A, Raquel C, Ratsimbazafy F, Bornemeier Z, 
Neumeier K, Baskir R, Gebo KA, Denny J, Smoller JW, Garriock HA.

In response to the rapidly evolving coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
pandemic, the All of Us Research Program longitudinal cohort study developed the 
COVID-19 Participant Experience (COPE) survey to better understand the pandemic 
experiences and health impacts of COVID-19 on diverse populations within the 
United States. Six survey versions were deployed between May 2020 and March 
2021, covering mental health, loneliness, activity, substance use, and 
discrimination, as well as COVID-19 symptoms, testing, treatment, and 
vaccination. A total of 104,910 All of Us Research Program participants, of whom 
over 73% were from communities traditionally underrepresented in biomedical 
research, completed 275,201 surveys; 9,693 completed all 6 surveys. Response 
rates varied widely among demographic groups and were lower among participants 
from certain racial and ethnic minority populations, participants with low 
income or educational attainment, and participants with a Spanish language 
preference. Survey modifications improved participant response rates between the 
first and last surveys (13.9% to 16.1%, P < 0.001). This paper describes a data 
set with longitudinal COVID-19 survey data in a large, diverse population that 
will enable researchers to address important questions related to the pandemic, 
a data set that is of additional scientific value when combined with the 
program's other data sources.

© Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health 2023. This work is written by (a) US Government 
employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad035
PMCID: PMC10505411
PMID: 36799620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35