 2023 Oct 10;192(10):1647-1658. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwad114.

Heterogeneity and Progression of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: 
Emphysema-Predominant and Non-Emphysema-Predominant Disease.

Castaldi PJ, Xu Z, Young KA, Hokanson JE, Lynch DA, Humphries SM, Ross JC, Cho 
MH, Hersh CP, Crapo JD, Strand M, Silverman EK.

While variation in emphysema severity between patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) is well-recognized, clinically applicable definitions 
of the emphysema-predominant disease (EPD) and non-emphysema-predominant disease 
(NEPD) subtypes have not been established. To study the clinical relevance of 
the EPD and NEPD subtypes, we tested the association of these subtypes with 
prospective decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and mortality 
among 3,427 subjects with Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease 
(GOLD) spirometric grade 2-4 COPD at baseline in the Genetic Epidemiology of 
COPD (COPDGene) Study, an ongoing national multicenter study that started in 
2007. NEPD was defined as airflow obstruction with less than 5% computed 
tomography (CT) quantitative densitometric emphysema at -950 Hounsfield units, 
and EPD was defined as airflow obstruction with 10% or greater CT emphysema. 
Mixed-effects models for FEV1 demonstrated larger average annual FEV1 loss in 
EPD subjects than in NEPD subjects (-10.2 mL/year; P < 0.001), and 
subtype-specific associations with FEV1 decline were identified. Cox 
proportional hazards models showed higher risk of mortality among EPD patients 
versus NEPD patients (hazard ratio = 1.46, 95% confidence interval: 1.34, 1.60; 
P < 0.001). To determine whether the NEPD/EPD dichotomy is captured by 
previously described COPDGene subtypes, we used logistic regression and receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to predict NEPD/EPD membership 
using these previous subtype definitions. The analysis generally showed 
excellent discrimination, with areas under the ROC curve greater than 0.9. The 
NEPD and EPD COPD subtypes capture important aspects of COPD heterogeneity and 
are associated with different rates of disease progression and mortality.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwad114
PMID: 37160347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15