 2023 Nov 3;192(11):1801-1805. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac071.

Total Energy Intake: Implications for Epidemiologic Analyses.

McCullough LE, Byrd DA.

In 1986, Willett and Stampfer (Am J Epidemiol. 1986;124(1):17-27) propelled the 
nutritional epidemiology field forward by publishing a commentary emphasizing 
the importance of analyzing diet in relation to total energy intake in 
epidemiologic analyses of diet and disease, detailing the value of accounting 
for body size, physical activity, and metabolic efficiency in diet-disease 
analyses via energy intake adjustment. Their publication has since been cited 
over 2,886 times and has inarguably advanced methodology for studying 
diet-disease associations, with most nutritional epidemiology studies standardly 
including some form of energy adjustment. However, there remains debate 
regarding the best scenarios and methods for energy adjustment. The goals of 
this commentary are to provide an updated review on factors that account for 
interindividual differences in energy intake, provide a balanced discussion 
regarding the considerations for or against adjustment for energy intake, and 
provide an updated examination of the commonly employed methods for the analysis 
of nutrient-disease associations. The principles of energy adjustment continue 
to be relevant nearly 25 years later, as it remains a critical method to account 
for potentially confounding interindividual variations in body size and physical 
activity.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac071
PMID: 35419586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12