 2022 Aug 22;191(9):1626-1635. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwac049.

Population Attributable Fraction of Nonvaccination of Child and Adolescent 
Vaccines Attributed to Parental Vaccine Hesitancy, 2018-2019.

Nguyen KH, Srivastav A, Vaish A, Singleton JA.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Aug 22;191(9):1636-1639.

Understanding the role of vaccine hesitancy in undervaccination or 
nonvaccination of childhood vaccines is important for increasing vaccine 
confidence and uptake. We used data from April to June interviews in the 2018 
and 2019 National Immunization Survey-Flu (n = 78,725, United States), a 
nationally representative cross-sectional household cellular telephone survey. 
We determined the adjusted population attributable fraction (PAF) for each 
recommended childhood vaccine to assess the contribution of vaccine hesitancy to 
the observed nonvaccination level. Hesitancy is defined as being somewhat or 
very hesitant toward childhood vaccines. Furthermore, we assessed the PAF of 
nonvaccination for influenza according to sociodemographic characteristics, 
Department of Health and Human Services region, and state. The proportion of 
nonvaccination attributed to parental vaccine hesitancy was lowest for hepatitis 
B birth dose vaccine (6.5%) and highest for ≥3-dose diphtheria and tetanus 
toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine (31.3%). The PAF of influenza 
nonvaccination was highest for non-Hispanic Black populations (15.4%), 
households with high educational (17.7%) and income (16.5%) levels, and urban 
areas (16.1%). Among states, PAF ranged from 25.4% (New Hampshire) to 7.5% 
(Louisiana). Implementing strategies to increase vaccination confidence and 
uptake are important, particularly during the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health 2022. This work is written by (a) US Government 
employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwac049
PMCID: PMC9444805
PMID: 35292806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures (includes 
financial disclosures): The authors have no conflicts of interest relevant to 
this article to disclose. None of the authors have financial relationships 
relevant to this article to disclose.


27