1. Am J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr 1;165(7):756-61. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwk064. Epub 2006 Dec 
22.

The impact of birth weight on infectious disease hospitalization in childhood.

Hviid A(1), Melbye M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology Research, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. aii@ssi.dk

Low birth weight, a result of preterm birth or intrauterine growth restriction, 
is a well-established indicator of survival in childhood. However, corresponding 
epidemiologic studies of the association between low birth weight and morbidity 
from infections throughout childhood are sparse. The authors evaluated the 
relation between birth weight and infectious diseases throughout childhood in a 
population-based cohort study comprising all children born in Denmark from 1977 
through 2004 (n = 1.7 million). Information on birth weight, gestational age, 
and potential confounding variables was linked to the children in the cohort, 
together with information on hospitalization with infectious disease. Poisson 
regression yielded rate ratios of hospitalization according to birth weight. The 
authors found that birth weight was inversely associated with risk of infectious 
disease hospitalization; among children aged 0-14 years, the risk of 
hospitalization increased 9% for each 500-g reduction in birth weight (increase 
in rate ratio = 1.09, 95% confidence interval: 1.09, 1.11). The effect was found 
to peak in infancy and to persist until 10 years of age. It was present also in 
children born at term (37-41 weeks of gestation). The present study is the first 
to demonstrate the measurable impact of birth weight on infectious diseases 
throughout childhood.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwk064
PMID: 17189591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]